Doc/grid description (#294)
SuperDARN/rst: docs/references/general/grid.md

<!-- Copyright (C) 2020 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
author(s): Marina Schmidt 

Disclaimer: License under GNU v3.0, the file is found in the root directory under LICENSE 

-->
# GRID files 

GRID files are post-processed data produced from FITACF files.

## Naming Conventions

### Single radar GRID files

Currently the common naming convention for a single radar GRID file is:

> YYYYMMDD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.grid

Some radars provide separate data files for each channel. In this case, the channel is specified after the 3-letter station ID:

> YYYYMMDD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.[a-d].grid

See [fitacf](fitacf.md) documentation for more information on this naming convention. 

If a GRID file is produced for 24-hours using the `-c` option in `make_grid` (see [`make_grid` tutorial](../../user_guide/make_grid.md)) or by combining individual GRID files with `combine_grid`, then the common naming convention is:

> YYYYYMMDD.<3-letter abbreviation>.grid

> ### Combined "GRD" files for each hemisphere

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Combined GRID files for each hemisphere
```
Do we want to fully drop this `GRD` naming convention?

Reviewer 2: @egthomas Ahh yes, we did discuss that a few weeks ago. It's getting late here now so I can do this tomorrow.

After GRID files are produced for separate radars, they may then be combined with other radars' GRID files for eventual processing into convection map files.
See [combine_grid](../../user_guide/make_grid.md) for instructions on how to combine multiple GRID files.

For further Map Potential processing, separate GRID files should be produced for the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. One naming convention for 24-hr GRID files could be:

> > YYYYMMDD.north.grd  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> YYYYMMDD.north.grid  
```

> > YYYYMMDD.south.grd  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> YYYYMMDD.south.grid  
```

## Fields

GRID files contain a record that contains scalar and vector fields. 

### Scalars
The following times refer to the start and end of the integration period.
| Field name       | Units      | Data Type    | Description                                  |
| :----------      | :-----:    | :-------:    | :---                                           |
| *start.year*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Year |
| *start.month*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Month number (not padded)                            |
| *start.day*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Day (not padded)  |
| *start.hour*  | *hrs*      | ***short***  | Start Hour   |
| *start.minute*  | *min*      | ***short***  | Start Minute |
| *start.second*  | *s*        | ***short***  | Start Seconds  |
| *end.year*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Year |
| *end.month*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Month (not padded) |
| *end.day*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Day (not padded) |
| *end.hour*    | *hrs*      | ***short***  | End Hour  |
| *end.minute*    | *min*      | ***short***  | End Minute |
| *end.second*    | *s*        | ***short***  | End Seconds |

### Vectors 

!!! Note

>     Let the number of radars in a given GRID/GRD record be defined as *numstid*, and let the number of gridded velocity vectors in a given record be defined as *numv*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Let the number of radars in a given GRID record be defined as *numstid*, and let the number of gridded velocity vectors in a given record be defined as *numv*. 
```

| *noise.mean*      | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Mean noise |
| *noise.sd*        | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Noise Standard deviation |
| *gsct*            | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Groundscatter flag |
| *v.min*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Minimum velocity threshold |
| *v.max*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity maximum threshold |
| *p.min*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power minimum threshold |
| *p.max*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power maximum threshold |
| *w.min*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width minimum threshold |
| *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width maximum threshold |
| *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold |
| *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold |
| *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude |
| *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude |

> | *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***flost*** | Magnetic Azimuth |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Magnetic Azimuth |
```

> | *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` version number per station number |
> | *program.id*     | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Control program ID per station number 
> | *noise.mean*      | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Mean noise for each radar |
> | *noise.sd*        | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Noise Standard deviation per station number |
> | *gsct*            | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | A list of groundscatter flags associated to each radars data for the given record |
> | *v.min*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Minimum velocity threshold |
> | *v.max*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity maximum threshold per station number |
> | *p.min*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power minimum threshold per station number |
> | *p.max*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power maximum threshold per station number |
> | *w.min*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width minimum threshold per station number |
> | *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width maximum threshold per station number |
> | *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold per station number |
> | *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold per station number |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` version number |
| *program.id*     | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Control program ID | 
| *noise.mean*      | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Mean noise |
| *noise.sd*        | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Noise Standard deviation |
| *gsct*            | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Groundscatter flag |
| *v.min*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Minimum velocity threshold |
| *v.max*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity maximum threshold |
| *p.min*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power minimum threshold |
| *p.max*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power maximum threshold |
| *w.min*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width minimum threshold |
| *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width maximum threshold |
| *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold |
| *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold |
```

> | *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude per vector point |
> | *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude  per vector point |
> | *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***flost*** | Magnetic Azimuth per vector point |
> | *vector.stid*     | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Station identifier per vector point|
> | *vector.channel*  | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Channel number per vector point |  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude |
| *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude |
| *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***flost*** | Magnetic Azimuth |
| *vector.stid*     | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Station identifier |
| *vector.channel*  | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Channel number |  
```

## Fields

GRID files contain a record that contains scalar and vector fields. 

### Scalars
The following times refer to the start and end of the integration period.
| Field name       | Units      | Data Type    | Description                                  |
| :----------      | :-----:    | :-------:    | :---                                           |
| *start.year*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Year |
| *start.month*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Month number (not padded)                            |
| *start.day*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Day (not padded)  |
| *start.hour*  | *hrs*      | ***short***  | Start Hour   |
| *start.minute*  | *min*      | ***short***  | Start Minute |
| *start.second*  | *s*        | ***short***  | Start Seconds  |
| *end.year*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Year |
| *end.month*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Month (not padded) |
| *end.day*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Day (not padded) |
| *end.hour*    | *hrs*      | ***short***  | End Hour  |
| *end.minute*    | *min*      | ***short***  | End Minute |
| *end.second*    | *s*        | ***short***  | End Seconds |

### Vectors 

!!! Note

>     Let the number of radars in a given GRID/GRD record be defined as *numstid* and
>     Let the number of gridded velocity vectors in a given record be defined as *numv*. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Let the number of radars in a given GRID/GRD record be defined as *numstid*, and let the number of gridded velocity vectors in a given record be defined as *numv*. 
```

<!-- Copyright (C) 2020 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
author(s): Marina Schmidt 

Disclaimer: License under GNU v3.0, the file is found in the root directory under LICENSE 

-->
# GRID files 

> GRID files are post-processed data product from FITACF files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GRID files are post-processed data produced from FITACF files.
```

## Naming Conventions

> ### Single GRID files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Single radar GRID files
```

> Currently the common naming convention for a GRID file is:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently the common naming convention for a single radar GRID file is:
```

> YYYYMMDD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.grid

> SuperDARN radars routinely change operating frequency. Some operating modes use multiple frequencies, either at the same time, or by alternating between frequencies. As a result, some files from some radars include all records for all frequencies in the same file and other radars separate out the individual frequencies into separate files, designated by a channel letter in the file name:

Reviewer 3: This paragraph implies that a channel letter would be used to separate different operating frequencies that are not run on different radar channels.  Is that really true?  If not, the wording needs to be altered.

Reviewer 2: @aburrell  I wonder if this should be documented more centrally, since it applies not just to grid/map files but to the rawacf and fitacf files too.

Reviewer 3: > I wonder if this should be documented more centrally

I think that would be a good thing to do.  I also think we should be very careful not to accidentally create confusion by conflating frequency bands and channels at all levels of documentation.

Reviewer 4: @aburrell I don't think this is always the case - I think the CPID would change, but not necessarily the channel letter. Perhaps @egthomas knows more on this.

Reviewer: I agree with all of the above comments by @aburrell, @ecbland, and @mtwalach - the separation of control programs, channels, and frequencies can be complicated.  In this case, I am not aware of a control program which creates a file for a separate channel solely because of a change in frequency (although that does not mean such a control program does not exist, perhaps Borealis is doing so?); certainly there have been Stereo modes which use a different frequency on the second channel, but that information is usually contained in the same rawacf / fitacf file and identified via the channel field.

Author: If anyone wants to write something here please do so :) I am mainly just starting the draft.

Reviewer 2: I think this is getting beyond the scope of documenting grid files. Maybe just keep it simple here, and then provide more explanation on the file naming elsewhere (when DSWG has standardised it)?

```suggestion
Some radars provide separate data files for each channel. In this case, the channel is specified after the 3-letter station ID:
```

Reviewer 3: I think this is good.  It doesn't explain how channels work (which is FINE) and it doesn't imply they operate a specific way.

> YYYYMMDD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.[a-d].grid

See [fitacf](fitacf.md) documentation for more information on this naming convention. 

If a GRID file is produced for 24-hours using the `-c` option in `make_grid` (see [`make_grid` tutorial](../../user_guide/make_grid.md)) then the common naming convention is:

> YYYYYMMDD.<3-letter abbreviation>.grid

### Combined GRID files 

> After GRID files are produced for seperate radars, they are sometimes further combined with other radars GRID files to meka a GRD file. Similar to GRID file just with multiple radar data included. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After GRID files are produced for separate radars, they are sometimes further combined with other radars GRID files to make a GRD file. This file has the same format as a GRID file, but includes data from multiple radars. 
```

I also recommend specifying that separate files are created for the northern and southern hemispheres, and by default all available radars in a given hemisphere are included.

Reviewer 4: Also, I just noticed that GRD and GRID seem to be used interchangeably in this paragraph/document. Is there a particular reason for this?

Reviewer 2: @mtwalach This is explained at the beginning of this document. GRID=gridded data file for a single radar, produced by `make_grid`. GRD=file containing gridded data from multiple radars, produced by `combine_grid`

Reviewer: From where did the GRD vs GRID distinction originate?  Was it for the purposes of this document?

Author: It can be, please make suggestions and stuff. This is just a starting templated based on the old docs.

Reviewer 4: Ah sorry, I didn't see that because github was only showing me changes that had been made, not the whole document (forever learning).

I am also curious about where this distinction comes from? Do we need one? Is it useful to have?

Reviewer 2: I think @aburrell's suggestion here is good. I will commit that and then make a further suggestion

> ### Combined GRID files 
> 
> After GRID files are produced for separate radars, they are sometimes further combined with other radars GRID files to make a GRD file. This file has the same format as a GRID file, but includes data from multiple radars. 
> See [combine_grid](../../user_guide/make_grid.md) on how to make GRD files. 
> 
> The common naming convention for 24-hr GRD files is:
> 
> > YYYYMMDD.grd  

Reviewer 2: > @aburrell: I also recommend specifying that separate files are created for the northern and southern hemispheres, and by default all available radars in a given hemisphere are included.

I've tried to address the first part of this here. I think the second part belongs in the [make_grid](docs/user_guide/make_grid.md) documentation

Side note: I'm starting to think that the GRID/GRD distinction is more confusing than helpful. 

```suggestion
### Combined "GRD" files for each hemisphere

After GRID files are produced for separate radars, they may then be combined with other radars' GRID files to make a GRD file. This file has the same format as a GRID file, but includes data from multiple radars. 
See [combine_grid](../../user_guide/make_grid.md) on how to make GRD files. 

Combined GRD files are produced for the northern and southern hemispheres separately and usually contain 24 hours of data. The common naming convention for 24-hr GRD files is:

> YYYYMMDD.north.grd  
> YYYYMMDD.south.grd  
```

> YYYYMMDD.south.grd  

## Fields

GRID files contain a record that contains scalar and vector fields. 

### Scalars

> 
> | Field name       | Units      | Data Type    | Description                                                |
> | :----------      | :-----:    | :-------:    | :---                                                       |
> The following times refer to the start and end of the integration period:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following times refer to the start and end of the integration period.
| Field name       | Units      | Data Type    | Description                                                |
| :----------      | :-----:    | :-------:    | :---                                                       |
```
Think this just got a little misplaced here.

| *start.day*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Day (not padded) of the integration period           |
| *start.hour*  | *hrs*      | ***short***  | Start Hour of the integration period                       |
| *start.minute*  | *min*      | ***short***  | Start Minute of the integration period                     |
| *start.second*  | *s*        | ***short***  | Start Seconds of the integration period                    |
| *end.year*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Year of the integration period                         |
| *end.month*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Month number (not padded) of the integration period    |
| *end.day*    | **None**   | ***short***  | End Day (not padded) of the integration period             |
| *end.hour*    | *hrs*      | ***short***  | End Hour of the integration period                         |
| *end.minute*    | *min*      | ***short***  | End Minute of the integration period                       |
| *end.second*    | *s*        | ***short***  | End Seconds of the integration period                      |

### Vectors 

!!! Note
    Let the number of radars in a given GRID/GRD record be defined as *numstid* and

>     Let the number of vector points in a give GRRID/GRD record be defined as *numv*. 

Reviewer 4: I think there's a typo here: 
`GRRID/GRD` should be `GRID/GRD`

Reviewer 2: GRRRRRRRRRRID!! :smiling_imp:
```suggestion
    Let the number of vector points in a give GRID/GRD record be defined as *numv*. 
```

| Field name  | Units           | Dimensionality | Data Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-----:         | :-------:      | :---:       | :---                                                                        |

> | *stid*      |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of of station id's that provided data for the record |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| *stid*      |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of of station IDs that provided data for the record |
```

> | *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |

Author: Yea, I have noticed grid files will overwrite the channel number to what you set it as. So with twofsound all the channel numbers will be 0 in the grid file if you do not specify. But wasn't sure what to say in the description. 

I didn't know if grid file channels meant something else.

> | *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |

Reviewer 2: I can't think of a good way to explain the channel numbers in just a few words to fit into this table. Maybe we can put an asterisk/footnote marker/"see note" here and then provide more explanation after the table? Some other fields might also benefit from some extra explanation (not necessarily in this PR)

> | *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |

Reviewer 4: I agree - from a user perspective it would be helpful to have a little explanation of what it all means and to have helpful tips in there for processing (e.g. Kodiak's channel 'D' is actually what would be the primary channel for other radars etc).

> | *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |

Reviewer 2: Would this issue be better addressed after the DSWG has created a naming standard? These channel naming inconsistencies ultimately arise from a lack of a standard and inconsistent treatment of channel names/numbers in the RST. 

Creating documentation will always be an iterative process. We could create a note about this in our [documentation](https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/projects/5) project to remind us about it in the future

> | *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |

Author: I think we can make a note now and then updated once that issue is resolved. Technically users can name files to whatever they want and in the documentation, we mention common naming convention.

> | *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |

Reviewer 2: Just added a note about this to the [documentation](https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/projects/5) project. Resolving this conversation now...

| *nvec*      | **None** | *[numstid]*  | ***short*** | Number of vectors per station|
| *freq*      | *kHz* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Frequency each radar was running for that record |
| *major.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Major algorithm number per station number|

> | *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor algorithm number per station number|

Author: Good question, I was copying from RFC. I think it means the `make_grid` version.... :/ 
When I generated grid files from FITACF 2.5 and 3.0 both files contain 2 for major and 0 minor. 

After we make this a standard format we really need to rethink a standard quality of data.

> | *major.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Major algorithm number per station number|
> | *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor algorithm number per station number|

Author: ```suggestion
| *major.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Major `make_grid`version number per station number|
| *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` versioon number per station number|
```

> | *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor algorithm number per station number|

Reviewer 4: Two more typos (not sure how to edit this directly):
Line 72: `..Major `make_grid`version...` needs a space before `version`
Line 73:  `versioon` -> `version`

> | *major.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Major `make_grid`version number per station number|
> | *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` versioon number per station number|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *major.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Major `make_grid` version number per station number |
| *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` version number per station number |
```

| *gsct*            | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | A list of groundscatter flags associated to each radars data for the given record |
| *v.min*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity minimum threshold per station number |
| *v.max*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity maximum threshold per station number |
| *p.min*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power minimum threshold per station number |
| *p.max*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power maximum threshold per station number |
| *w.min*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral minimum threshold per station number |
| *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral maximum threshold per station number |
| *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold per station number |
| *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold per station number |
| *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude per vector point |

> | *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magentic Longitutde  per vector point |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude  per vector point |
```

> | *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` version number per station number |
> | *program.id*     | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Control program ID per station number 
> | *noise.mean*      | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Mean noise for each radar |
> | *noise.sd*        | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Noise Standard deviation per station number |
> | *gsct*            | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | A list of groundscatter flags associated to each radars data for the given record |
> | *v.min*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Minimum velocity threshold |
> | *v.max*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity maximum threshold per station number |
> | *p.min*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power minimum threshold per station number |
> | *p.max*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power maximum threshold per station number |
> | *w.min*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width minimum threshold per station number |
> | *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width maximum threshold per station number |
> | *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold per station number |
> | *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold per station number |
> | *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude per vector point |
> | *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude  per vector point |
> | *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***flost*** | Magnetic Azimuth per vector point |
> | *vector.stid*     | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Station identifier per vector point|
> | *vector.channel*  | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Channel number per vector point |  
> | *vector.index*    | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***int***   | Grid cell index |
> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *minor.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Minor `make_grid` version number|
| *program.id*     | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Control program ID|
| *noise.mean*      | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Mean noise for each radar |
| *noise.sd*        | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Noise Standard deviation per station number |
| *gsct*            | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | A list of groundscatter flags associated to each radars data for the given record |
| *v.min*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Minimum velocity threshold |
| *v.max*           | *m/s* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity maximum threshold |
| *p.min*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power minimum threshold |
| *p.max*           | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Power maximum threshold |
| *w.min*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width minimum threshold |
| *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width maximum threshold |
| *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold |
| *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold |
| *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude |
| *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude |
| *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***flost*** | Magnetic Azimuth |
| *vector.stid*     | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Station identifier |
| *vector.channel*  | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Channel number |  
| *vector.index*    | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***int***   | Grid cell index |
| *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians |
```

> | *vector.vel.sd*     | *m/s*   | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity standard deviation per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *vector.vel.sd*     | *m/s*   | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity standard deviation |
```

| *vector.pwr.median* | *dB*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Power median per vector point|

> | *vector.pwr.sd*     | *dB*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Power standard deviation per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *vector.pwr.sd*     | *dB*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Power standard deviation|
```

| *vector.wdt.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Spectral Width median per vector point|

> | *vector.wdt.sd      | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Spectral Width median per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *vector.wdt.sd      | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Standard deviation of spectral width|
```
I see this one was a little bit off.

<!-- Copyright (C) 2020 SuperDARN Canada, University of Saskatchewan 
author(s): Marina Schmidt 

Disclaimer: License under GNU v3.0, the file is found in the root directory under LICENSE 

-->
# GRID files 

GRID files are post-processed data produced from FITACF files.

## Naming Conventions

### Single radar GRID files

Currently the common naming convention for a single radar GRID file is:

> YYYYMMDD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.grid

Some radars provide separate data files for each channel. In this case, the channel is specified after the 3-letter station ID:

> YYYYMMDD.HH.mm.ss.<3-letter abbreviation>.[a-d].grid

See [fitacf](fitacf.md) documentation for more information on this naming convention. 

If a GRID file is produced for 24-hours using the `-c` option in `make_grid` (see [`make_grid` tutorial](../../user_guide/make_grid.md)) then the common naming convention is:

> YYYYYMMDD.<3-letter abbreviation>.grid

### Combined "GRD" files for each hemisphere

> After GRID files are produced for separate radars, they may then be combined with other radars' GRID files to make a GRD file. This file has the same format as a GRID file, but includes data from multiple radars. 

Reviewer 5: I think this looks good.  It's a little bit of defining things that might be more set by the DSWG.  @ecbland, thoughts?

> See [combine_grid](../../user_guide/make_grid.md) on how to make GRD files. 

Reviewer 5: I think this works pretty well, seem good @ecbland?

> Combined GRD files are produced for the northern and southern hemispheres separately and usually contain 24 hours of data. One naming convention for 24-hr GRD files could be:

Reviewer 5: Think this reads a little better, but loses the implicit that the file contains 24-hours of data.  Not a problem, as that should be something the DSWG sets.  Only thing is that it's changing the `GRD` to `GRID` without changing the section heading of `Combined "GRD"...`

> Combined GRD files are produced for the northern and southern hemispheres separately and usually contain 24 hours of data. The common naming convention for 24-hr GRD files is:

Reviewer 5: Could this be changed to be a little more vague on the naming convention.  I actually haven't been following this naming convention for the more recent updates to gridding in order to not overwrite data from previous algorithms. 
```suggestion
Combined GRD files are produced for the northern and southern hemispheres separately and usually contain 24 hours of data. One naming convention for 24-hr GRD files could be:
```

> YYYYMMDD.north.grd  
> YYYYMMDD.south.grd  

> ## Fields

Author: we did this with FitACF docs as well can we look at this again when we do RAWACF and then adjust accordingly? 

Would like this to be with 4.4 release

> ## Fields

Reviewer 5: Sorry I'm just catching up on these and coming out being bogged down with lots of other things.  Certainly understand that bolding the `Units` and `Data Type` was done before, but I guess I'm curious as to what was the thinking on bolding these?  Bolding the None's in the `Units` does highlight that it doesn't have any units, but having all of the `Data Type` entries bolded doesn't seem to help emphasize things.  I don't think this is major, and if it was just a 'thought this would look best' then that's OK.  We can certainly revisit for a future version.

> ## Fields

Author: I was trying to do `latex` font at first, and it failed. I wanted to differ it a bit to make it pop. I get asked a lot what the units are, and personally, as an outsider, I don't know either, and it's usually the thing you want to see if you are converting to something. I cannot say how much time-frequency has gotten me. 

`Data Type` not sure why ... might have just something I thought looked nice, or if someone was programming might want to know the accuracy with regards to the data. Especially since `CHAR` is an `int8`, and that threw me through a loop. 

I agree field names and descriptions are essential, but once you know what you want, you have to work/program/convert the data, and that is the thing people will be going back to and trying to figure out. So from my perspective, that seemed a lot more significant as that is what I do a lot. Again personal preference no real care, but for consistency sake, we should hold this off now and review a bit later, especially how this might get moved somewhere else.

> ## Fields

Reviewer 5: @mts299, thanks for taking the time to explain things here.  I can understand what you're talking about on the perspective and what my be more desired to look at quickly.  I think you're right on keeping things consistent and we can address this at another time.

GRID files contain a record that contains scalar and vector fields. 

### Scalars

| Field name       | Units      | Data Type    | Description                                                |
| :----------      | :-----:    | :-------:    | :---                                                       |
| *start.yearr*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Year of the integration period                       |

> | *start.month*  | **None**   | ***short***  | Start Month number (not padded)  of the integration period |

Reviewer 5: Is it better to add to the top of the table that all of these times reference the start and end times of the integration period?

| *end.minute*    | *min*      | ***short***  | End Minute of the integration period                       |
| *end.second*    | *s*        | ***short***  | End Seconds of the integration period                      |

### Vectors 

!!! Note
    Let the number of radars in a given GRID/GRD record be defined as *numstid* and
    Let the number of vector points in a give GRID/GRD record be defined as *numv*. 

| Field name  | Units           | Dimensionality | Data Type   | Description                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-----:         | :-------:      | :---:       | :---                                                                        |
| *stid*      |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of of station IDs that provided data for the record |
| *channel*   |  **None**       |  *[numstid]*     | ***short*** | A list of channel numbers associated to the station id the record |
| *nvec*      | **None** | *[numstid]*  | ***short*** | Number of vectors for each station|
| *freq*      | *kHz* | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Transmitted frequency for each radar |

> | *major.revision* | **None** | *[numstid]* | ***short*** | Major `make_grid` version number per station number |

Reviewer 5: This seems a little harder to easily summarize. So I think leaving it for now works well.

| *w.max*           | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Spectral width maximum threshold per station number |
| *ve.min*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error minimum threshold per station number |
| *ve.max*          | *m/s*  | *[numstid]* | ***float*** | Velocity error maximum threshold per station number |
| *vector.mlat*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Latitude per vector point |
| *vector.mlon*     | *degrees* | *[numv]* | ***float*** | Magnetic Longitude  per vector point |
| *vector.kvec*     | *degrees*  | *[numv]*   | ***flost*** | Magnetic Azimuth per vector point |
| *vector.stid*     | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Station identifier per vector point|
| *vector.channel*  | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***short*** | Channel number per vector point |  
| *vector.index*    | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***int***   | Grid cell index |
| *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|
| *vector.vel.sd*     | *m/s*   | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity standard deviation per vector point|

> | *vector.pwr.median* | *dB*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Power median per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *vector.pwr.median* | *dB*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Weighted mean power per vector point|
```
Updated based on @egthomas comment on what median means.

Reviewer 2: Strongly recommend removing "per vector point". The descriptions used [here](https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/blob/master/codebase/superdarn/src.lib/tk/gtable.2.0/src/gtable.c#L169-L182) is much clearer

Reviewer 5: Updated now.  Sorry I'm coming in very late on this and maybe causing confusion!

Reviewer: It doesn't look like the removal of "per vector point" (or "per station number") ever took place.

Reviewer 2: @egthomas Yep, just noticed that too. I won't merge this PR just yet -- clearly needs one final check!

> | *vector.index*    | **None**  | *[numv]*   | ***int***   | Grid indices|

Reviewer 5: Think we're good here. Yes @ecbland?

| *vector.pwr.sd*     | *dB*  | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Power standard deviation per vector point|

> | *vector.wdt.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Spectral Width median per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *vector.wdt.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Weighted mean spectral width per vector point|
```
Updated based on @egthomas comment on what median means.

> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer 2: @egthomas Haha!! Thanks for noticing (and knowing) that :smile: 
Does this also apply to other similarly-named fields such as `vector.wdt.median`?

> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer: Yes, that's right.  Unfortunately that information (at least until this pull request is approved) is currently only found in the comments I added to the source code a few years ago:  https://github.com/SuperDARN/rst/blob/master/codebase/superdarn/src.lib/tk/gtable.2.0/src/gtable.c#L169-L182

> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Weighted mean velocity per vector point|
```
Adding in the per vector point notation here.

> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer: I still feel that including "per vector point" (or station) on each row is necessary, as it clutters the table and is already described in the Dimensionality column.  Particularly since a "point" refers to a location, while there can be multiple grid vector measurements per grid cell.

> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer 2: Agree with @egthomas here.

> | *vector.vel.median* | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Velocity medians per vector point|

Reviewer 5: OK, no strong feelings here and we can come back to this if it's not so clear. I'll edit my other notations.

| *vector.wdt.sd      | *m/s* | *[numv]*   | ***float*** | Spectral Width median per vector point|

## File structure

GRID files contain typically 24 hours of data. Individual records in a GRID file contain a record for each integration time period (default 120 seconds). 

> Partial records may occur in GRID and GRD file. See [fitacf](fittacf.md) for more information. 

Author: I haven't seen one but I also don't look through grid files but MAP files have partial records like FITACF does. So I put this here as a cautionary warning to be safe.

> Partial records may occur in GRID and GRD file. See [fitacf](fittacf.md) for more information. 

Reviewer 2: I think we can omit this line for now. I don't want to spread information that we can't verify. 
```suggestion
```
